## Week 4 Homework

## Reading
[1] Stallings, W., Cryptography and Network Security: Principles and Practice, 7th ed., 2017, Pearson.

[2] Goodrich M. and Tamassia Roberto, Introduction to computer security, Boston, MA : Pearson, 2011.

[3]- Bishop M., Introduction to computer security, Chapter 12, first printing, 2004. 

[4] Prevelakis, V. and Spinellis, D., 2001, June. Sandboxing Applications. In USENIX Annual Technical Conference, FREENIX Track (pp. 119-126).

[5] Greamo, C. and Ghosh, A., 2011. Sandboxing and virtualization: Modern tools for combating malware. IEEE Security & Privacy, 9(2), pp.79-82

## Exercices
Task 1: 
•	Suppose the private key file for J is object O1:  Only J can read
•	Suppose the public key file for J is object O2: All can read, only J can modify
•	Suppose all can read and write from object O3
What’s the access matrix?

Task 2:
1.	Elaborate the Access Control Matrix for the following example:
Accountant Ltd is a financial institutions, their access control policies have been designed by Adam who is a security consultant.  Adam identified 3 objects (Operating System, Accounting Data and Audit Trial), and 4 subjects.
•	The manager is allowed read and modify two objects: Operating System, Accounting Data, and can only read the Audit Trial. 
•	The Audit Trial can be read by all subjects but only the Auditor can modify it. 
•	The accounting data can only be read, and modified by Manager and Accounts Programs, however all other subjects can access them. 
•	The System Admin can read, write and execute the operating system but can ready only Accounting Data and Audit Trial.
2.	Write the ACL for Audit Trial
3.	Write the ACL for Accounting Data
4.	Write the ACL for Operating System



