## COMSM0049: Lab 8 -- Access Control

## Material


#### Preliminaries: 
\*ls command is used to display the permissions of the files. YOu can refer to **man ls** if you need to know more about it.

1. Execute **ls -l/bin/ls** and discuss what it displays.

2. Discuss the existent permissions, identify each user permissions, and what is the hard link?

3. Identify the permission for sudo

Hint: man sudo

Setting up the environment:

Here's a Vagrant file for this weeks lab that we have tested.

**Vagrantfile**
```
Vagrant.configure(\"2\") do \|config\|
config.vm.box = \"generic/debian10\"
config.vm.synced_folder \".\", \"/vagrant\"
config.vm.provision \"shell\", inline: \"sudo apt-get update \--yes\"
config.vm.provision \"shell\", inline: \"sudo apt-get install \--yes
strace nasm\"
end
```

**Task 1:** Creating new users and checking the default permission

Use **man** to find out the difference between :

-   adduser

-   useradd

1.  Create three new users: Alice, Bob and Charlie and set passwords for
    each user.

2.  Log in as Alice, create a file in Alice's home directory and check
    its default permissions.

3.  Create a group named admins and add bob to it. \*man groupadd\*

4.  Change the group's ownership of the file from alice to admins. \*man chown\*

5.  Change the admins group permissions to read and write for the file
    you have created. \*man chmod\*

\*\*Discussion:\*\*

1.  Can bob modify the file's content? Will charlie be able to modify
    it? Why?

2.  Now add Charlie to the admin's group. Can he modify the file now?
  
| Permission  | File                   | Directory                                                      |
|-------------|------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------|
| read (r)    | allowed to view file   | allowed to view contents directory contents                    |
| write (w)   | allowed to write to    | allowed to remove or file add new files to the directory       |
| execute (x) | allowed to execute file| allowed to access files in the directory                       |


**Task 2:** Special Permissions

In addition to the regular POSIX permissions of read, write and execute
there are 3 special permissions. They hold the same place value as the
regular permissions and are:

SETUID - set user ID on execute

SETGID - set group ID on execute

StickyBit - puts the directory in sticky mode

The SETUID and SETGID permissions allow users and groups who are not the
owner or group of a file to execute that file as though they were. When
the Sticky Bit is set on a directory, only that directory\'s owner or
root can delete or rename the directory\'s files.

\*Note: Use the octal representation as well \*

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Permission                                    Octal Value
  --------------------------------------------- -------------------------
  read (r)                                      4

  write (w)                                     2

  execute (x)                                   1

  No permission                                 0
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

1.  Log in as Alice and create a folder called alicefolder. Set the
    SETUID, SETGID and Sticky Bit permissions, list the permissions.
    What do you notice?

2.  Remove execute for all, but leave the special permissions, what
    changes do you notice?

3.  Assign the minimum group permissions for alicefolder so that users
    from other groups can browse the folder and read the files within
    it.

4.  Change the owner and group for alicefolder to bob

5.  Log is as charlie and create a folder called charlie_likes_to_share.
    Set the permissions for this folder in such a way that charlie can
    share the files with alice and bob. This means that alice and bob
    can browse the folder, read the content of any files, but cannot
    modify, rename or delete any other files than their own. Have you
    noticed a limitation during that process?

6.  As charlie, create a file sensitivedata.txt and write a line of text
    in this file. Set no permissions for group and other for this file.
    Switch user to alice, and try to read the data from this file using
    nano. Alice has permission to run nano, but not to read the file. So
    when nano attempts to read the file a "permission denied" error
    message will be displayed. However, if you set the SUID bit on the
    nano, alice is granted access to the file. How does it work? The
    UNIX system doesn't think bugs is reading file via nano, it thinks
    "root" is the user and hence the access is granted. Test this and
    use ps to monitor what is going on.

 \*Hint: man nano\*

**Task 3:** Linux Access Control Lists

\*\*Hints \*\*:

 - The getfacl command displays the file name, owner, group and the existing ACL for a file.

 - The setfacl command sets ACLs of files and directories.

 The -m option adds or modifies one or more rules in a file or folder's ACL.

- The -b option removes rules in a file or folder's ACL.

\*\*Discussion\*\*:

1.  Create 2 additional users abbott and costello. Create a group called
    actors and add both abbott and costello to it.

2.  Create a folder called important-files in the home folder of the
    user costello. Display the ACL of important-files.

\*At the moment, are there any differences between using ls --la and getfacl? \*

3.  Now, login as abbott and try to create a file called abbott.txt in
    the costello-files directory. Did it work? Why?

Please remove the sticky bit configuration you have added during task 2
and try again. Does it work now?

If not try to add a rule to the ACL of the folder costello-files that
gives to the actors group read, write and execute permissions to that
folder.

\*Try to create the abbott.txt file again and what do you observe\*

4.  Remove the permissions you have added previously. Try to change the
    rules between the two users and see how you can play around/affect
    the permissions.

**Extra Task:**

\*\*Writing a SUID program in C \*\*

\*\*accessmysecret.c\*\*

\`\`\`C

#include \<stdio.h\>

 #include \<stdlib.h\>

 #include \<sys/types.h\>

#include \<unistd.h\>

 #include \<errno.h\>

 int main()

{
printf(\" UID GID \\n\"

\"Real %d Real %d \\n\"

\"Effective %d Effective %d \\n\",

getuid (), getgid (),

geteuid(), getegid());

 FILE \*fp = fopen(\"mysecret\", \"r\");

 if (fp == NULL) {
 
printf(\"Error: Could not open file\");

exit(EXIT_FAILURE);

}

char c;

while ((c=getc(fp)) != EOF) {

 putchar(c);

 }

putchar(\'\\n\');

return EXIT_SUCCESS;

 }

\`\`\`

-   Now you are going to create a SUID program, to grant access to the
    contents of your "mysecret" file to anyone who runs the program,
    without sharing direct access to the file.

'cat \> \~/mysecret'

  Make sure the file is only accessible by the owner :

'ls -la' should show "rw\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--" for that file.

  Create a C program by making a new file "accessmysecret.c"

' vi accessmysecret.c'

 Remember, vi is modal. Press "i" to enter insert mode, then enter
    the code:

-   Save your changes and quit (Esc, ":wq").

-   Compile the program (which uses the C code to create an executable):

'gcc accessmysecrets.c -o accessmysecrets'

 Set the permissions for the file (using chmod) to setuid:

 'chmod u+s accessmysecrets'

-Check the permissions include SUID:

'ls -l accessmysecrets'

-   Run the program:
-   
 './accessmysecrets'

-   Note that the program outputs its real and effective identity.

-   Change to another user, and execute the program:

> '/home/yourusername/accessmysecrets'

-   Note that the effective ID is that of the owner of the program. You
    should also see the contents of the mysecret file, even though you
    don't have access to the secrets file directly.

1.  Think about the security of this solution. How secure is it? Would
    it be safe for root to be the owner of this program? Why not?

2.  Switch to another user and use the SUID accessmysecrets program to
    get read access to any one of the owner user's files!

\*\*Hint\*\*:

1.  there is a security problem with this code.

2.  think about hard links.

\# Challenge :

-   Modify the program to correct the above vulnerability.

-   Modify the program so that only the first line of the mysecrets file
    is displayed to others.

-   Modify the program so that the script checks the UID and only
    continues for a specific user (for example, if the user is root).

 \*\*Hint \*\*: "man getuid"
